Created new React Native Components entry (#1269)
Codecademy/docs: content/react/concepts/react-native/react-native-components/react-native-components.md

---
Title: 'React Native Components'
Description: 'Bundles of reusable, nestable code used to describe the appearance and behavior of a UI.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Components'
  - 'React Native'
  - 'UI'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-react-native'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**React Native Components** are bundles of reusable, nestable code used to describe the appearance and behavior of a User Interface (UI).

## UI Views

The basic building block of a **UI** is the **View,** a small, rectangular and often times nestable element that can be used to display text, images and respond to user input. React Native works by invoking these Views in their native environment with JavaScript, using React Components.

![React Native to Native Ui Representation](../../../../../media/react_native_UI_Views.png)

## Native Components

> These previously mentioned platform-backed components are called **Native Components,** and React Native creates the corresponding, platform specific Views (whether iOS or Android) for these components at runtime. Because of this, React Native apps look, feel and perform like Native apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These previously mentioned platform-backed components are called Native Components, and React Native creates the corresponding, platform specific Views (whether iOS or Android) for these components at runtime. Because of this, React Native apps look, feel and perform like Native apps.
```

## Core Components

> React Native offers a set of essential, ready-to-use Native Components called **Core Components.** There are many components ranging from Text to Activity Indicators. Most apps will use these Core Components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native offers a set of essential, ready-to-use Native Components called Core Components. There are many components ranging from Text to Activity Indicators. Most apps will use these Core Components:
```

| React Native Component | Description | 
| --- | --- |
| \<View> | Is a container analog to a \<div> in html. It supports layout with flexbox, styles, touch handling, accessibility controls and can contain other components inside, including other views. | 
| \<Text> | Displays text, support styles and touch events. It can also nest other Text components. | 
| \<Image> | Displays different types of images, including from network, static, local disks and from ‘data:’ uri scheme. | 
| \<TextInput> | Allows the input of text by the user and provides several configuration capabilities such as auto-correction, auto-capitalization, placeholder text, etc. |
|\<ScrollView> | An scrolling container that can nest multiple components and views. It can scroll vertically or horizontally. |

## Community Components

> React Native Componens can also be custom-built, and there’s a big ecosystem of these Community-built Components that can be accessed on the [**Native Directory**](https://reactnative.directory/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native Components can also be custom-built, and there’s a big ecosystem of these Community-built Components that can be accessed on the [Native Directory](https://reactnative.directory/)
```

## React Native Components are based on React

> ![React and React Native Components](../../../../../media/react_react_native_components.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![React and React Native Components](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/media/react_react_native_components.png)
```

> React Native Components share the same API structure as **React Components.** Whatever a component returns is rendered as a React element, which allows to describe what’s seen on the screen. They can also be defined as ***Function Component*** or ***Class Components:***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native Components share the same API structure as React Components. Whatever a component returns is rendered as a React element, which allows to describe what’s seen on the screen. They can also be defined as Function Component or Class Components:
```

>  - #### Function Component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ### Function Component:
```

> 	```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```jsx
```

    import React from 'react';
    import { Text } from 'react-native';
    
    const Box = () => {
        return (
            <Text>I have a small box</Text>
        );
    }
    
    export default Box;
    ```

>     Try this code example [HERE.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-function-component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Try this code example [here.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-function-component)
```

>  - #### Class Component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Class Component:
```

> 	```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```jsx
```

    import React, { Component } from "react";
    import { Text } from 'react-native';
    
    class Box extends Component {
        render() {
            return (
                <Text>I have a small box</Text>
            );
        }
    }
    
    export default Box;
    ```

>     Try this code example [HERE.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-class-component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Try this code example [here.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-class-component)
```

	

## JSX, Props and State.

> React Native Components also use **JSX,** accept **Props** and manage **State.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native Components also use JSX, accept Props and manage State.
```

>  - ### JSX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JSX
```

> 	As in React, the JSX syntax in React Native allows writing elements inside JavaScript, and also the use of variables inside them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As in React, the JSX syntax in React Native allows writing elements inside JavaScript, and also the use of variables inside them:
```

> 	```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``jsx
```

    import React from 'react';
    import { Text } from 'react-native';

    const Box = () => {
        const size = “small”;
        return (
            <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
        );
    }

    export default Box;
    ```

>     Try this code example [HERE.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-jsx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Try this code example [here.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-jsx)
```

>  - ### Props

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Props
```

> 	 Most React Native Core Components accept Props, for example, you can pass different sizes via Props to this Box component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Most React Native Core Components accept Props, for example, you can pass different sizes via Props to this Box component:

```

> 	```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

    import React from 'react';
    import { View, Text } from 'react-native';

    const Box = (props) => {
        return (
            <Text>I have a {props.size} box</Text>
        );
    }
	
    const BoxCollection = () => {
        return (
            <View>
                <Box size=“small” />
                <Box size=“medium” />
                <Box size=“large” />
            </View>
        );
    }

    export default BoxCollection;
    ```

>     Try this code example [HERE.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-props)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Try this code example [here.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-props)
```

>  - ### State

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### State
```

> 	 Just like React, React Native Components use State to handle data that changes over time, such as with user interaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Just like React, React Native Components use State to handle data that changes over time, such as with user interaction:

```

> 	```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

    import React, { useState } from "react";
    import { View, Text, Button } from "react-native";

    const Box = () => {
        const [size, setSize] = useState("small");
        return (
            <View>
                <Text>I have a {size} box </Text>
                <Button
                    color="red"
                    onPress={() => setSize("small")}
                    title="Small" />
                <Button
                    color="blue"
                    onPress={() => setSize("medium")}
                    title="Medium" />
                <Button
                    color="orange"
                    onPress={() => setSize("large")}
                    title="Large" />
            </View>
        );
    }

    export default Box;
    ```

>     Try this code example [HERE.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-state)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Try this code example [here.](https://snack.expo.dev/@ericsonrd/rn-component-state)
```

---

> Title: 'React Native Components'

Reviewer 2: @Dusch4593 I'm wondering if maybe we can use the term "Component" instead of views. For React Native it looks like View is one of the many Components that can be utilized

> Title: 'React Native Components'

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can use "Native Components" instead? View is one of the native components so this may cause some confusion. Also, the images added support this term usage and provides the iOS/Android parallel.

> Title: 'React Native Components'

Reviewer 3: Totally cool with that 😄

## Core Components

React Native offers a set of essential, ready-to-use Native Components called Core Components. There are many components ranging from Text to Activity Indicators. Most apps will use these Core Components:

| React Native Component | Description | 
| --- | --- |
| \<View> | Is a container analog to a \<div> in html. It supports layout with flexbox, styles, touch handling, accessibility controls and can contain other components inside, including other views. | 
| \<Text> | Displays text, support styles and touch events. It can also nest other Text components. | 
| \<Image> | Displays different types of images, including from network, static, local disks and from ‘data:’ uri scheme. | 
| \<TextInput> | Allows the input of text by the user and provides several configuration capabilities such as auto-correction, auto-capitalization, placeholder text, etc. |
|\<ScrollView> | An scrolling container that can nest multiple components and views. It can scroll vertically or horizontally. |

## Community Components

> React Native Components can also be custom-built, and there’s a big ecosystem of these Community-built Components that can be accessed on the [Native Directory](https://reactnative.directory/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Views can also be custom-built, and there’s a big ecosystem of these community-built components that can be accessed on the [Native Directory](https://reactnative.directory/).
```

> ## React Native Components are based on React
> 
> ![React and React Native Components](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/media/react_react_native_components.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![React and React Native Components](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/media/react_react_native_components.png)
```

> React Native Components share the same API structure as React Components. Whatever a component returns is rendered as a React element, which allows to describe what’s seen on the screen. They can also be defined as Function Component or Class Components:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Examples

React Natives uses the same component syntax structure for its views to display elements to the screen, like in React.js. The following examples are of a `Box` component defined as both a class and functional component:
```

> 
> ### Function Component:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

```jsx

> import React from 'react';
> import { Text } from 'react-native';
> 
> const Box= () => {
>     return (
>         <Text>I have a small box</Text>
>     );
> }
> 
> export default Box;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

// Functional Component
const Box = () => {
  return (
      <Text>I have a small box</Text>
  );
}

// Class Component
class Box extends Component {
  render() {
      return (
          <Text>I have a small box</Text>
      );
  }
}

export default Box;
```

```
    

> ### Class Component:
> 
> ```jsx
> import React, { Component } from "react";
> import { Text } from 'react-native';
> 
> class Box extends Component {
>     render() {
>         return (
>             <Text>I have a small box</Text>
>         );
>     }
> }
> 
> export default Box;
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I would replace this with the following **note**:

\> \*\*Note:\*\* To test this example, either the class or function definition of the \`Box\` component must be commented out before doing so.

	
## JSX, Props and State.

> React Native Components also use JSX, accept Props and manage State.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Views also use [JSX](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/jsx), accept [props](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/props), and manage [state](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/state).
```

### JSX

As in React, the JSX syntax in React Native allows writing elements inside JavaScript, and also the use of variables inside them:

```jsx

> import React from 'react';
> import { Text } from 'react-native';
> 
> const Box= () => {
>     const size = “small”;
>     return (	
>         <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
>     );
> }
> 
> export default Box;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import React from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

const Box = () => {
  const size = “small”;
  return (	
      <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
  );
}

export default Box;
```

```
	
### Props

> Most React Native Core Components accept Props, for example, you can pass different sizes via Props to this Box component:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most Core Components in React Native accept props. For example, different sizes for the `Box` component can be passed via props:
```

```jsx

> import React from 'react';
> import { View, Text } from 'react-native';
> 
> const Box = (props) => {
>     return (
>         <Text>I have a {props.size} box</Text>
>     );
> }
> 
> const BoxCollection = () => {
>     return (
>         <View>
>             <Box size=“small” />
>             <Box size=“medium” />
>             <Box size=“large” />
>         </View>
>     );
> }
> 
> export default BoxCollection;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import React from 'react';
import { View, Text } from 'react-native';

const Box = (props) => {
  return (
      <Text>I have a {props.size} box</Text>
  );
}

const BoxCollection = () => {
  return (
      <View>
          <Box size=“small” />
          <Box size=“medium” />
          <Box size=“large” />
      </View>
  );
}

export default BoxCollection;
```

```
	
### State

> Just like React, React Native Components use State to handle data that changes over time, such as with user interaction:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like in React, components in React Native also use state to handle data that changes over time, such as with user interaction:
```

```jsx

> import React, { useState } from "react";
> import { View, Text, Button } from "react-native";
> 
> const Box = () => {
>     const [size, setSize] = useState("small");
>         return (
>             <View>
>                 <Text>I have a {size} box </Text>
>                 <Button
>                     color="red"
>                     onPress={() => setSize("small")}
>                     title="Small" />
>                 <Button
>                     color="blue"
>                     onPress={() => setSize("medium")}
>                     title="Medium" />
>                 <Button
>                     color="orange"
>                     onPress={() => setSize("large")}
>                     title="Large" />
>             </View>
>         );
> }
> 
> export default Box;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import React, { useState } from "react";
import { View, Text, Button } from "react-native";

const Box = () => {
  const [size, setSize] = useState("small");
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>I have a {size} box </Text>
      <Button
        color="red"
        onPress={() => setSize("small")}
        title="Small" />
      <Button
        color="blue"
        onPress={() => setSize("medium")}
        title="Medium" />
      <Button
        color="orange"
        onPress={() => setSize("large")}
        title="Large" />
    </View>
  );
}

export default Box;
```

Author: Hey @Dusch4593 thanks for the review! I've made the changes but before I update this pull request, I have a question if you don't mind. 

I'm new to Git and Github, and I'm confused by something. For some reason, I don't know if I did something wrong or what, but some files that I didn't created nor modified started showing up when staging files to my forked repository of the Codecademy docs. 

What should I do with this files? I believe if I commit the changes to this React Native entry, these files would appear from my branch and would be merged with this entry, I don't know if those files are up to date. Should I delete these? then commit and update the pull request?

<img width="777" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-18 at 7 43 58 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/208325986-ed5ef6d1-6170-4e4e-900a-3bf2ac340b1b.png">

Author: Thanks @Dusch4593 I did that without the --hard flag and It says branch is now updated. This is what I get know. I assume all these files are ignored when I commit rn_components right?

<img width="1054" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-21 at 12 50 27 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/208826240-bbd1dffa-f261-436d-8e00-b52b61694cae.png">

Reviewer 3: @ericsonrd Cool! Now, can we run `git checkout main` and run `git status` and see what the screenshot shows there?

Author: @Dusch4593 Before checking out to main, it prompts me to remove these: 
<img width="864" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-26 at 1 07 02 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209570475-89c1eb1b-bb30-4dd6-a376-c317279a6ef0.png">

Reviewer 2: @ericsonrd Try `git stash` and then switch over to the main branch. If I'm trying to maneuver quickly between branches and if the current branch I'm working on has changes on it that I don't want to commit just yet.

Author: HI @yangc95, thanks for answering. I did that before but the group of files at the bottom still would be overwirtten. Can these be safely removed then checkout?
<img width="889" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-26 at 11 58 14 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209608838-58b3ed86-97cd-444b-adc2-bbe1447aeca3.png">

Reviewer 3: @ericsonrd You could try `git stash --include-untracked` and then you should be able to checkout into `main`.

Also, if you want to see the running list of changes you've stashed, run `git stash list`. 😄

Author: @Dusch4593 Done. It's checked out to `main`. Now what's next? Update `main' from the Codecademy docs then Merge `main` into `rn_components` and continue from there?

<img width="891" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-27 at 8 11 05 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209738458-514c8c07-c526-402b-b15c-706c8023e950.png">

Reviewer 3: @ericsonrd Awesome! Now even there it says that remote `main` is in sync with `origin/main`, what happens if we run `git pull`?

Author: @Dusch4593 Says it's already up to date

Reviewer 3: Gotcha. Just wanted to confirm your local `main` was at least untangled. Now, it looks like your remote `origin/main` may need untangled next:

<img width="903" alt="Screen Shot 2022-12-28 at 6 27 38 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23144845/209884815-f166256b-538d-44f0-916f-2f8db66fb79f.png">

It is expected for your fork's `origin/main` is x-commits _behind_ the base `Codecademy/docs:main` branch since new changes from outside PR branches are being merged. But sync problems may occur for your fork's `origin/main` if it is x-commits _ahead_, as shown above. A solution that's worked for me is a hard `reset` back to the base `main` branch. On your local `main` branch, assuming you have already have a remote named `upstream` pointing to `https://github.com/Codecademy/docs.git`, let's run the following commands:

```
git reset --hard upstream/main
```

This solution was borrowed from [this StackOverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41283955/github-keeps-saying-this-branch-is-x-commits-ahead-y-commits-behind#:~:text=Now%20to%20fix,match%20upstream%3A)

Give this a try and let me know if you have any issues. 😄

Author: Done. This is what is shows:

<img width="562" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-28 at 7 56 50 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209886566-cdeb3f03-1061-486a-98af-6a355f30e127.png">

Reviewer 3: Ok now try `git pull` again.

Author: Done. 

<img width="1112" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-28 at 8 11 47 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209887330-e15dc99e-4b70-4eec-9a5b-43e0f5257943.png">
<img width="697" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-28 at 8 12 02 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95394815/209887338-16379560-66e5-4129-921f-408ee45b46b4.png">

Reviewer 3: Hey @ericsonrd! Hoping you had a restful holiday and happy new year! 🎆

I'm sorry that [your fork's `main` branch](https://github.com/ericsonrd/cc-docs-frk/tree/main) still seems to be a bit entangled. After discussing this with a colleague, we were wondering if you'd be open to lifting your fork's branch protections for today to see if we can fix this on our end?

cc: @yangc95

Author: Hi @Dusch4593! Happy new year to you too!

Done with the branch protections, let me know if it works. I've been reading some guides and now everything is up to date except for the "commits ahead" on main/rn_components, so it seems the next step is Rebase, right?

Reviewer 2: @Dusch4593 @ericsonrd it looks like permissions are still denied. Let's continue this conversation in https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/discussions/categories/q-a
